## Personal Page


My research interests lie at the interface of Supply Chain and Networks. At a broad level, I am working on certain theoretical aspects of the application of game theory to supply chains and networks. More specifically, on studying the strategic interactions among agents embedded in networks. The research questions in this regard involve studying the emergence of specific networks structures among agents given that the agents make rational decisions. 

My teaching interests lie in the domain of Operations Management and Analytics. I teach courses such as operations management, supply chain management, service operations management, modelling with spreadsheets, Python programming, data analytics using Python & R, financial analytics using Python, Excel and visual analytics using PowerBI and Tableau.  Please find some recent research snippets below:


## COVID-19 pandemic and global financial market interlinkages: a dynamic temporal network analysis

The present study investigates the changes in G20 stock market dynamics and their interlinkages in the aftermath of COVID-19. It utilizes the Detrended Cross-Correlation Analysis (DCCA) along with the network and complexity theories for detecting the contagion effect of the pandemic on the stock markets. We find that both advanced and emerging stock markets, departing from their pre-crisis structures, form a tightly coupled close community after the disease outbreak – except for China that distanced itself from the rest of the cohort. This indicates that COVID-19 has caused contagion in the global equity market, which has increased the risk to international portfolio diversification benefits. The adoption of the Network theory for contagion detection technique augments the detailed understanding of the structural changes and their interlinkages among the stock markets in a more comprehensive way.

## Capacitated facility location–allocation problem for wastewater treatment in an industrial cluster

We present a location–allocation problem for wastewater treatment in a cluster of processing units. The problem involves installing wastewater treatment plants of appropriate capacities at suitable locations and allocating processing units to these plants. The operational cost of treatment plants is a nonconvex function of wastewater volume and pollutant concentration. This problem is formulated as a non-convex mixed integer nonlinear programming (MINLP) problem. For the general class of this problem, solution strategies based on adapted McCormick envelopes and also piece-wise linear approximation are presented. For a special case of this problem, an exact convexification strategy is proposed and an outer approximation based branch-and-cut approach is presented as an exact solution method. For solving larger instances, we present a metaheuristic solution method based on multi-start neighborhood search incorporated into a MINLP solution approach. A real-world case study is presented to illustrate the results of the model along with a multi-objective analysis.


## Stable Production Networks

One of the key features which promote growth of industrial clusters is collaboration among firms within such clusters. Collaboration among firms leads to the formation of networks. Stability of these networks is vital to the sustainability of the particular firms. In this paper, we model a supply chain network where a set of downstream firms (players) source inputs from upstream firms (players) who manufacture goods, add value to the products and resell them. The upstream firms produce identical goods and compete on quantities to sell these goods to the downstream firms. The upstream firms procure goods from the downstream firms and sell them. Additionally, upstream firms network among themselves so as to reduce their costs. We model this setting as a two-stage n-player strategic network formation game. Firms decide their links before competing on quantities in the second stage of the game. Using the defined model, we derive equilibrium quantities and profits as a function of the network structure and number of firms. Following which we analyze the conditions under which different stable network emerge. Our analysis brings forth several interesting insights such as higher connections among downstream players lead to increased profits for upstream manufacturers. From the network stability perspective, we obtain the conditions under which regular, star, etc. network structures are pairwise and bilaterally stable. Furthermore, we also find the conditions under which core–periphery network structures emerge and are stable.


## About Me

I have done my PhD from the Department of Operations Management & Quantitative Techniques at Indian Institute of Management, Indore. Prior to joining TAPMI, I was a faculty member at Woxsen University, Hyderabad. I have also worked as a visiting professor at IIM Amritsar for their MBA programme. Currently, I am is working as an Assistant professor at T A Pai Management Institute Manipal and I am also the Co-chair of the TAPMI MuSigma LEAD Analytics Programme.
My teaching interests lie in the domain of Operations Management and Analytics. I have taught subjects such as Operations Management, Supply Chain Management, Service Operations Management, Modelling with Spreadsheets, Python Programming, Artificial Intelligence Using Python, Data Analytics Using Python & R, Financial Analytics Using Python, Excel, and Visual Analytics Using Tableau & Power BI. 
My research interests lie at the interface of Game Theory, Artificial Intelligence, Non-linear Programming and Networks. 
Prior to my PhD, I have worked in the Engineering, Procurement, and Construction Industry and has experience in installation, automation and operation of material handling units in steel production plants.
I am active in the consulting space and have consulted for State Government Agencies and Pharma Companies in the domain of Traffic Management and Analytics.
